As I reflect on what I have accomplished, I realize that my greatest successes come from when I am able to build relationships that benefit my professional environment. I enjoy collaborating and sharing information between projects, and have been able to leverage and develop this ability in my current position as a Risk Manager at Fannie Mae.
As a Risk Manager within a Program Management Office (PMO), I have helped develop a uniform risk management process across 18 projects at a variety of maturity levels. To develop this process, I initially reached out to each project to introduce myself and communicate the ultimate objective [WHAT IS THE OBJECTIVE?]. In addition to helping new projects get started on the right foot, I also work with established projects to build the risk process [WHICH IS???], as well as, offer training and system administrative support to developing teams. This early [early in what sense? early in the life of the project? or early in your career at Fannie?] exposure to teams has helped me to develop strong relationships within Fannie Mae and build a working foundation. [FOUNDATION ON/OF WHAT - maybe, "and build a foundation "]
I continue to regularly collaborate with project managers through the implementation and maintenance of the PMO risk process. This opportunity to work closely with each team has allowed me to get a detailed view of their uncertainties and analyze the potential impacts of each. In turn, through this analysis I am able to help the flow of cross-project collaboration and communication, by seeing the links between dependent projects.  Similar to a Magic Eye painting, where it is necessary to first see the details up close before taking a step back to see the big picture, I am able to connect the dots of each project across the program to build a more holistic view for the organization.
I have been fortunate to be in a role at Fannie Mae that compliments my existing skill set [OF...], but I am now anticipating the next step forward. If enrolled at Georgetown University’s Evening MBA program, I would be able to utilize the vast academic resources and new professional connections to build my tool set of skills and reach my goals. My short term goal is to improve risk and project management processes within my role at Fannie Mae. A more intimate class size, as offered by the Evening MBA program, provides more opportunity to develop close relationships with my peers and professors. Exposure to different industries and management styles would allow me to study real examples of how other professionals have addressed similar efforts.
A longer term goal of mine is to further develop my critical thinking and analytical skills. Within my current role, I look at actions, decisions and uncertainties across projects to identify common trends. These trends depict a picture of what risks exist at a higher level and require senior management involvement. Through development of critical thinking abilities, I will be able to identify trends, determine root cause and evaluate how to mitigate possible risks. I will also be able to more effectively assist project managers in developing response strategies and contingency plans. Critical thinking to me, is the ability to thoroughly evaluate multiple solutions and determine which resolution will have the highest benefit and the lowest negative impact. I look forward to honing this transferable skill through the Evening MBA Program. Specifically through Intensive Learning Experience, I look forward to the opportunity to put analytical skills to the test through a hands on case study.  This will be an experience I can utilize in my current and future roles.  
Through my time at Fannie Mae, I have learned who I am and what I have to offer. As an active student within this program, I would be able to provide my own point of view, experience and skills to the benefit of my fellow classmates. I offer a unique perspective of the inter-workings of a Program Management Office within a dynamic firm such as Fannie Mae. I can also share how to effectively build professional relationships and leveraging that bond to piece together something larger. With each class that comes through the Evening MBA Program, there is the opportunity to build a stronger program and network, I welcome the opportunity and strive to be a part of building something bigger than myself.  
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Emily Engelman